\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo*-*
@setfilename nu-mode.info
@documentencoding ISO-8859-1
@include version.texi
@settitle nu-mode manual
@include macros.texi


@copying
This manual is for nu-mode (version @value{VERSION} of @value{UPDATED}),
a modern keybinding for Emacs.
Copyright @copyright{} 2014 @authors{}.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3
or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;
with no Invariant Sections, no Front-Cover Texts, and no Back-Cover Texts.
A copy of the license is included in the section entitled
``GNU Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation

@end copying

@dircategory Emacs
@direntry
* nu-mode: (nu-mode). Modern keybinding for Emacs.
@end direntry


@titlepage
@title nu-mode
@subtitle Modern keybinding for Emacs
@author @authors()
@page
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top nu-mode

This is the manual for nu-mode, a modern keybinding for Emacs.
@end ifnottex

@menu
* Overview::
* View and Edit::
* Files Buffers Windows::
* Minibuffer::
* Hacking::
* Advanced Usage::
* Integration::
* Cheat Sheet::
* Customization::
* Contributing::
* GNU Free Documentation License::
@end menu

@node Overview
@chapter Overview

``nu-mode `` is a modern keybinding for Emacs. It does offer a consistent CUA Emacs interface, and plans to integrate properly with most popular Emacs modes.
CUA, here, does imply a deep meaning, despite it does partly use cua-mode.

nu-mode is a global minor mode, its keymap,
and some commands which are not provided in raw Emacs.

Modern, means respecting conventions like
@enumerate
@item @kbd{Control-f} to find
@item @kbd{Control-r} to replace
@item @kbd{Control-s} to save
@item @kbd{Control-x}, @kbd{Control-c}, @kbd{Control-v} to cut, copy, paste.
@end enumerate

To allow user to leverage large panel of functions, nu-mode relies on prompts. For example, while @kbd{Control+f} will directly offer to isearch-forward-regexp (that is, ``Find''), @kbd{Alt+f} will raise a ``find-prompt'' offering several search related features. The prompt will display a list of keys - actually, sequences - and associated functions : t to find-tag, w to ace-jump-word-mode, m for imenu, b for regexp-builder, o for occur, @kbd{Alt+f} to isearch-forward-regexp, and so on.

Prompts do adapt to context : ie, according to major mode or selection state, different functions will be available or not. As of October, 2014, there are 250 ``define-key'' inside the relevant code portion, which means about 15 prompts offer to call 25O commands. Obviously, additionnal keys paddle offers to easily navigate.

If you're really impatient, go to Cheat Sheet...

@section Dependencies
nu-mode depends on several libraries, both native or external ones.
@enumerate
@item recentf
@item cua-selection-mode
@item helm
@item undo-tree
@end enumerate

These are all optional dependencies.
@enumerate
@item help-fns+, to describe-keymap
@item ace-jump
@item magit
@end enumerate


@section Help

Use @kbd{Control+q} to quit a sequence or a command in progress.
Use @kbd{Control+z} to undo last command.
Use @kbd{Control+h} to gain access to help functions. This includes the usual shortcuts to describe what a key does, or what a function does.
Use @kbd{Alt+q} prompt to quit Emacs (or run some other function).

Prompts are usually triggered using a @kbd{Alt} modifier and advertise a function using the same key, but with @kbd{Control} modifier. For example, @kbd{Alt+s} will pop-up a save prompt offering several features, while @kbd{Control+s} directly saves the current buffer.

These prompts offer you to quickly learn where functions are.

@section Prompts

Prompts are basically a window showing several possible keys, and which functions are to be run given this input. However some features deserve some deeper explanation. When a key does ``raise a prompt'', minibuffer will ask for an input or to press ? to get more details. This is basically a key sequence with a minibuffer prompt (this function is 'nu-light-prompt-for-keymap and is usable with any keymap, like help-map, and this is what Control+h does, for example).

Pressing @key{<tab>} will raise a ``buffer-prompt''. First, a buffer prompt will display available keys (what key sequences do not have). Second, a prompt will also advertise direct shortcuts to commands : ie, shortcuts that would have directly run some function without going through the prompts. For example, using @kbd{Alt+d} prompt, it is possible to press o to 'kill-word, but prompt will advertise that @kbd{Control+d} would have directly called this same function without requiring to go through a prompt. This does not mean using the prompt was wrong. It is rather meant as a way to discover and as a reminder, since nu-mode has many alternatives.

Third, a prompt (no matter light- or buffer-) allows you to use arguments in two ways. The first way, is to use standard Emacs keys to trigger an argument (eg, @kbd{Control+1}, or @kbd{Alt+1}, or @kbd{Alt+-}, or use the universal argument which is bound in nu-mode to @kbd{Alt+p}), then run the prompt, then choose the command that will be affected by the argument. The second way to use arguments is to first run the prompt, then directly press a digit or - to increment the argument. Then, press the relevant key to run the desired function.

Fourth, a buffer-prompt also allows to get some help about functions. Run the buffer-prompt, press ?, then the same keymap as usual will not run functions but describe functions. For example, while `replace-prompt' ususally run `revert-buffer' on @key{a} press, once ? has been pressed, @key{a} will instead describe function `revert-buffer'.

Fifth, a prompt (no matter light- or buffer-) can be toggled to some `repeat' state. Run a prompt, then press @key{+}. You can then use the prompt as usual, except that after running the function, prompt will ask you again for a key, with the same keymap. Escape the prompt pressing any unbound key. You might notice is does allow some sort of modal editing, but this is not really the intented behaviour. This feature is rather made to make some commands easier, for example deleting a paragraph then two word then a character. Modal editing is possible using nu-mode, see below.

Sixth, a buffer-prompt can always be scrolled using <space> and <backspace>. Thus space and backspace are not bound. I might be tempted however to inverse things later on, bind space/backspace, and have buffer prompt use M-space / M-backspace to scroll.

Seventh, a prompt (no matter light- or buffer-) can always be escaped using `q'. This letter is never bound. You can always use it. Note that @kbd{Control+q} and @kbd{Alt+q} are neither bound.

@section helm-prompts

An alternative way to explore prompts is helm. Not the most efficient in my humble opinion, however it works : from a light prompt, instead of pressing @key{tab} to trigger a full (buffer) prompt, it is possible to press @key{space} to have a helm completion using the candidates corresponding to the prompt.

Prompts shortcuts are shown but totally ignored : this is helm which decides candidate selection. Prompts shortcuts are only shown for information, in order to learn - shortcuts might also be used to select candidate however).

Direct shortcuts are also shown, as usual.

@section ok but where are prompts

Either jump to Cheat Sheet part of this manual (or, on github : @uref{https://github.com/pyluyten/emacs-nu/wiki/Cheat-Sheet---All-Prompts}).
Or, run nu-describe-keymap (@kbd{Control+h Alt+k}) and precise nu-menu-map.

All of the below keys use the alt modifier to run the associated prompt (for example @kbd{Alt+f} to run the find prompt) except the h and o which uses Control modifier.

@cartouche
@verbatim

key             binding
---             -------
a               nu-a-map
b               nu-bold-map
d               nu-delete-map
f               nu-find-map
g               nu-goto-map
h               help-map
o               nu-open-map
p               nu-print-map
q               nu-quit-map
r               nu-replace-map
s               nu-save-map
v               nu-insert-map
w               nu-window-map

@end verbatim
@end cartouche

From Emacs, the simplest is to @kbd{Control+h} then @key{*} to light-prompt about the different available prompts. This just tells which key to press, not exactly which shortcut, and allows to describe the associated keymap.

You can @kbd{Control+h * *} to describe the full nu-keymap.

@node View and Edit
@chapter View and Edit

Obviously just type keys to input text. With slight notes : @kbd{Alt+m} to carriage return + indent. Use @kbd{Alt+v c} to insert literally a character.

@section Navigate

@cartouche
@verbatim
      I
    J K L
@end verbatim
@end cartouche

nu-mode navigation is based on a paddle, an inversed T : while arrows still work, nu-mode relies on @key{Alt} key to navigate. @key{i} @key{j} @key{k} @key{l} go up, left, down, right (previous line, backward char, next line, forward char). If @kbd{Shift} is pressed while moving, this will select or extend selection, as @kbd{Shift} plus arrow does.

There are several reasons leading to this choice ; the most important being @key{Alt} an easy key to press with the thumb, thus sparing pinky finger. This is exactly the same principle than ErgoEmacs applies. Another obvious reason is that many CUA keys are mainly on the bottom left part of the keyboard, while @kbd{Control} key associated with the paddle, has a specific meaning.

(Actually, any nu-mode function, appart from opening, is available from the @key{Alt} key modifier, since prompts offer access to functions.)

Additionally, use @key{Alt} @key{u} and @key{Alt} @key{o} to move to previous, next word.

@cartouche
@verbatim
    U I O
    J K L
@end verbatim
@end cartouche

Use @kbd{Alt+$} to go to end of line, and @kbd{Alt+h} (or, @kbd{Alt+^} to go to beginning of line. @kbd{Shift} only works with @key{h} - but you can use mark prompt for this.

To reach a line, or the beginning of buffer, or the end of the buffer, use @kbd{Alt+g} then the appropriate key. Just read this goto-prompt, which offers to navigate per line, paragraph, sentence and so on. To find a char, a string, a line starting with a specific letter, use ace-jump : also inside @kbd{Alt+f} prompt. To directly trigger a regexp-search, use @kbd{Control+f}, which is another way to navigate.

Numeric arguments can apply to navigation. Press @kbd{Alt+1} then @kbd{Alt+5} to input 15 as a numeric argument ; now input @kbd{Alt+k} to go down one line : this will go down 15 lines.

`Repeat' also applies to navigation. Enter @kbd{Control+Return} to repeat a navigation (or any command).

However - let's finish with navigation. Use @kbd{Alt+Space} to scroll (to the bottom), and @kbd{Alt+Backspace} to go back to the top. Emacs vanilla keybindings for `help-mode' and some other offer Space and Backspace to do this - this is one of the few conventions somewhat respected into Emacs-nu. Yup.

Note that emacs sometimes require you to scroll another window. This is quite useful to go through *Help* buffer, for example. If you need this, use @kbd{Control+Alt+Space}. To scroll the other way around the other window, use first a negative argument (@kbd{Alt+-}).

This navigation chapter is meant as a general introduction to emacs-nu ; because navigation is a basis, but also because we saw many emacs-nu principles :
@enumerate
@item
Direct keys for most common operations.
@item
Prompts for slighly less common to rare operations.
@item
Numeric arguments.
@item
Repeat.
@item
Few emacs convention respected, but some.
@end enumerate

These same principles apply to other prompts.

@section Selections and Deletion

Now that you can input text plus navigate, let's examine several alternatives to delete (cut) text.

@enumerate
@enumerate
@item
Use @kbd{Control-x} to cut the current line.
@item
Use @kbd{Control+j},@kbd{Control+l} to delete backward, forward char. Backspace / Delete are still available.
@item
Use @kbd{Control + u} to delete previous word.
@item
Use @kbd{Control + $} to delete up to end of line.
@end enumerate
@item
Use @kbd{Alt+d} to trigger a prompt. This will offer you to delete what you want (function, org-node, sentence, ...).
@item
Alternatively, first mark (select) text you want to select then use @kbd{Control+x}.
@end enumerate

Right, but how to select? Once again, several alternatives...here we go

@enumerate
@item
The paddle allow to directly select (``mark'') text : keep @kbd{shift} pressed, then move either with arrows or @kbd{Alt+<some key of the paddle>}. Using @kbd{Alt-Shift-u}, for example, will select previous word (or extend current selection to previous word).

@item
An alternative in order to select text is to press @kbd{Control+a} to mark current ``block'' (a word including punctuation), then move to extend selection.

@item
An alternative is to press @kbd{Alt+a} to invoke ``a-'' prompt, allowing to select ``a-'' word, ``a-'' sentence, and so on, or to set the mark. Or, to set a rectangular mark. Read the prompt! Notably, @kbd{Alt+a i} will just set the mark, while @kbd{Alt+a j} will set the mark & go backward-char - and other paddle keys will perform some logical actions. Moreover, the a-prompt tries hard to keep in sync with goto prompt to share the same keys, which are quite closely related to paddle keys - thus it is easy to remember both mark and goto prompt...

@item
You can also use a direct key to set a rectangular mark : @kbd{Control+Shift+a}.

@end enumerate

Once some text is selected you can ``toggle the point and mark'' using either @kbd{Control+a} or @kbd{Alt+a}, or deactivate the selection using @kbd{Alt+q}, or cut the text using @kbd{Control+x} (or @kbd{Alt+d} might be nice depending on your fingers position).

@section Cut Copy Paste

When no selection is active, use @kbd{Control + x} to cut current line, or a deletion command since deletions actually cut text (as a reminder : emacs `kill-' commands will copy to kill-ring, while emacs `delete-' commands will not).

Use @kbd{Control + c} to copy currrent line, or, while a selection is active, copy this selection.

Use @kbd{Control + v} to paste the current clipboard. Following @kbd{Control + v} will replace this paste with precedent clipboard item. However, if you need to paste several times, first invoke a numeric prefix argument to specify how many times to paste, then type @kbd{Control+v}. Or, you can use @kbd{Alt + v} to invoke an advanced ``Paste'' prompt.


@section Undo or Redo

As expected, use @kbd{Control+z} to undo and @kbd{Control+Shift+z} to redo. Or, use @kbd{Alt+z} to invoke undo-tree visualizer to play with discard changes in an advanced way. This screen displays last changes, and you can navigate these using the paddle (@kbd{Alt+i}, @kbd{Alt+j}, @kbd{Alt+k}, @kbd{Alt+l}). Press @key{q} to quit this screen. Note that this is somewhat a prompt, aint't it, which is a reminder on why to use @kbd{Alt}.


@section Advanced Edition

Some advanced editon features rely on @kbd{Alt+r}, which will invoke replace prompt, allowing you to replace-regexp, merge-lines, delete spaces, or invoke other functions (@kbd{Control+r} directly triggers replace-regexp).

@enumerate
@item
@kbd{Alt+y} will copy to current line char under point (on the below line).
@item
@kbd{Alt+e} will copy to current line char above point (on the above line).
@end enumerate


@kbd{Alt+v} prompt to open a line.
@kbd{Alt+s} prompt allows you to save current column as a goal-column. While you move next and previous lines, cursor will try to reach this column as far as possibe.

@kbd{Control+b} will run nu-bold, which will act differently according to major-mode. This try to emphasis, which might have a different meaning given the mode.
@kbd{Alt+b} will run an emphasis (bold) prompt, allowing to indent, fill-paragraph, and so on.


@node Files Buffers Windows
@chapter Files Buffers Windows

@section Internal Windows and Tabs

Emacs has a specific word for its internal frames : it says `Windows'. This is awful, but might be understood given we precise these are internal windows, not X (or Wayland) windows. Emacs has no support for standard tabs because there would be too much tabs. But hidden buffers are tabs, aren't they?

Use @kbd{Control+o} prompt to open a buffer. You can use @kbd{Control+Shift+o} to directly be prompted for a buffer to open. Or, @kbd{Control+Shift+i} to direclty open next buffer, skipping *Messages* or *Backtrace* and the like. @kbd{Control+n} allows you to create another internal window. @kbd{Control+w} allows you to kill buffer.

Use @kbd{Control+t} to open another tab.

The delete prompt (@kbd{Alt+d}) allows to delete either this window or all other windows. The save prompt (@kbd{Alt+s}) allows to save current configuration, which you can open from open prompt (@kbd{Control+o}).

To navigate current internal windows, use the goto prompt (@kbd{Alt+g}) then one of the four ``windmove'' functions. Note that, in order to switch to another tab, you could also call ace-jump-char-mode (either @kbd{Alt+f f} or directly @kbd{Control+Shift+f} then specify which character of the other tab you want to jump to). If you actually just need to scroll another tab, stay in current one and use @kbd{Control+Alt+Space} to 'scroll-other-window'.

@section Files, Bookmarks

Use @kbd{Control+s} to save current file, @kbd{Alt+s} to invoke a prompt to rename it.
@kbd{Control+o} to open a file. You can also have bookmarks : use the same open-prompt and save-prompt for this.

You can open a directory, too.

dired is the emacs file manager. You can easily use regexp to open, delete, copy, rename files. And since you are using nu-mode, this is regexp-file-management-for-human-beings ,). See the relevant section on Integration.

@section External Windows

It is possible, from Emacs to handle a bit of window management. But you should rather use a decent window manager. Look however at the save proompt...

@node Minibuffer
@chapter Minibuffer

It is highly advised to enable helm-mode while using emacs-nu. Use below code in your .emacs.d/init.el or whatever file you are using to customize Emacs :

@lisp
(helm-mode 1)
@end lisp

Some prompts do provide access to helm functions : open prompt to access help-mini or help-find-files. Or insert prompt to access kill-ring from helm-show-kill-ring. Mx will use helm-Mx, ibuffer does use helm too, and so on.

Once helm buffer is opened to let you select file / buffer / function or whatever helm migth help you select, use paddle (@kbd{M-i} , @kbd{M-k} to navigate up/down). If there are ``sources'', use @kbd{Shift+Space} / @kbd{Shift+backspace} to navigate it or common @kbd{Alt+Space} / @kbd{Alt+Backspace} to scroll page. As expected, @kbd{Control+q} to quit helm.

While looking for a file, C-u will not delete backward word but will go up one directory.

Any helm prompt will use @key{TAB} as a ``persistent action'', which sometimes means completion.

@node Hacking
@chapter Hacking

The print buffer, invoked from @kbd{Alt+p}, will offer you to eval things or make (compile). The insert prompt, invoked from @kbd{Alt+v}, will allow you to insert a file, or the result of an async shell command into a new buffer. The save buffer, from @kbd{Alt+s}, offers to use git power thanks to magit.

@kbd{Alt+p} also offers to grep, find-grep or ediff.

As seen above, @kbd{Alt+b} will run an emphasis-prompt, which allows to comment. Onto c-mode or various lisp-mode, @kbd{Control+b} will toggle comments.

@kbd{Alt+s} prompt also allows you to create tags to find definitions.

@node Advanced Usage
@chapter Advanced Usage

If you are not used to Emacs, reading this chapter is not necessary. But Emacs veteran will probably be interested. Emacs-nu redefines many keys, however two points make learning curve shorter

@enumerate
@item For any user, knowing CUA keybinds will make emacs-nu discoverable.
@item For veteran Emacs user, two important sequences remain:
@end enumerate

@kbd{M-x} is still there. This means, you can probably obtain what you want. Also, @kbd{Control+h} for help-prefix is still there.

Now, two things should probably be kept in mind while trying nu-mode

@enumerate
@item
To trigger a major mode sequence, start with @kbd{Control+Space}. This will invoke vanilla emacs @kbd{Control+c}. For example, into org-mode, use @kbd{Control+Space Control+n} to navigate to next node. If you already defined you own keys starting with @kbd{Control+c}, do not amend this definition.

@lisp
(define-key mykeymap kbd("\C-c h") myfunction)
@end lisp

To invoke above myfunction example, press @kbd{Control-SPC h}.

@item
You should not rely on @kbd{Control+x}, or at least no regularly. However to trigger x prefix, use @kbd{Control+Shift+x}. This will raise a prompt to trigger Control-X-Prefix. Note this should @emph{not} be forced to, otherwise this is a bug you're encouraged to report.

@end enumerate

`Repeat' is invoked from @kbd{Control+Return}. It was hacked to work with prompts : thus, you can repeat a command ran from a prompt. Prefix arguments (numeric-argument, negative-argument) can work : either use standard @kbd{Alt+1}, @kbd{Alt+2} ... shortcuts plus one command. Or, from a prompts, directly type a figure (or, a number) then choose the command (eg, from delete prompt, type @key{3} then invoke kill-word to kill 3 words ; or type @key{2} then @key{3} to input 23). Alternatively, first trigger the argument from standard shortcuts, then call the prompt. What is invoked from the prompt will make use of that argument.

Note that `where-is` function, which sometimes advertises shortcuts, will not work as usual, since a prompt is not a keymap : `where-is` do not know how to invoke @kbd{Control-r} then @kbd{r} to invoke replace-regexp. (Did you try `where-is git push' in magit? this does not work. What is acceptable for maggit is not for a full keymap.)

Thus :
@enumerate
@item
For each function accessible from a prompt, an additional shortcut is created, accessible from @kbd{menu} plus the same @kbd{key} than the prompt, in order to make where-is advertise. Hence, if you read `You can run this command with <menu> r k`, please understand, despite it is also true, that you can also run the command with @kbd{Control-r-k}.
@item
From the help prompt (@kbd{Control-h}), run @key{h} to invoke nu-help. This function will present you all prompts, and will offer you to describe their keymaps - that is, all the functions you can access from these prompts.
@end enumerate


@node Integration
@chapter Integration

nu-mode is to be responsive - in order for major modes to preserve nu-mode philosophy, prompts plus some direct keys will change according to the context : mainly major-mode. More globally, nu-mode does integrate with other libraries.

@section Major-mode : dired

As expected, most of vanilla Dired keys are respected : these are keys which should, in Fundamental mode for example, run self-insert-key - for example, d will mark a file for deletion. Modifiers keys will mainly invoke nu-mode commands. This allows to combine both worlds : if you don't know how to run something, use a prompt and read it to learn how to directly invoke the key. Eg, using Delete prompt it is possible to dired-delete a file, but we learn from this prompt an alternative - direct, native - key to run the same. This should make dired learning curve better.

Dired allows to use nu-mode shortcuts to navigate : the @kbd{Alt+i} & @kbd{k} paddle allow to navigate the list, while @kbd{j} will go to parent directory and @kbd{l} will find-file at point.

Some prompts are adapted to dired : selections (with @kbd{Alt+a}) for example, will provide the different dired options to mark files. Look at ``replace'', ``insert'', ``find'', and so on. Where it make sense the usual prompts will be useful inside dired. Keys that *remain* useful inside dired are kept.

Use @kbd{Control+p} (uniserval-argument) then @key{s} key to edit the ls command.

@section Major-mode / Minor-mode : org

nu-mode has many features related to org. Rather than storing all org-related features in one place, nu-mode does enrich its usual prompts or even commands given the org-mode context.

@kbd{Alt+n} new prompt allows to capture a note.
Using open-prompt, it is possible to open agenda.
@kbd{Alt+s} prompt will allow you to org-store-link. @kbd{Alt+v} prompt will allow to paste an org link.
This same prompt offers to org-table-insert-column or row. It is possible to insert a timestamp or directly a deadline.
@kbd{Control+b} will run org-emphasis.
@kbd{Alt+b} print prompt allows to expand (``print''), which does correspond to what org-modes binds to Alt+Tab, which is an *awful* choice.
It is also possible to delete a node from the delete prompt.
One can org-mark-ring-goto using goto prompt.

The Control+Space Control+Space shortcut will trigger what would have been Control+c Control+c. 
Note that shift selectections do not work with org-mode.

@section Major-mode : magit

Use Alt+s, ie save-prompt, to gain access to magit-status.

A work has started to integrate magit properly. For example, replace prompt will offer to toggle whether next commit has --amend. It is possible to use new prompt to create branch, open prompt to open branch manager, and so on.


@section Major-mode : term

term is a major mode which has two components (sub-modes)
@enumerate
@item char mode
@item line mode
@end enumerate

Default (startup) is char mode.

Char mode is like a real terminal. This allows you to do real stuff, including terminal embedded interfaces. On the other hand, shortcuts are not available since keys are directly sent to term. There is an exception however : press control+c (or, control+space) and you will access a unique prompt. This prompt allows you to navigate to other buffers, trigger line-mode, cancel current command, or call another prompt.

Basically in term mode you only run commands, plus navigate.

When you want to select output or navigate more seriously, just use the line sub-mode. In line-mode, nu-keymap is not amended. (TODO : adapt it.) The advantage is to gain nu-keymap + some emulation, obviously on the other hand this is not anymore a full term emulation since keys are not directly sent.

From line mode, press control+space to gain a prompt to come back to char mode (plus, many other stuff...)

@section Major-mode : texinfo

Texinfo has little add-ons to prompts : ``print'' prompt will offer to makeinfo or convert to pdf, and ``insert'' prompt to texinfo-insert...

@section Minor-mode : auto-complete

There isn't much to say. Auto-complete does integrate well, that's all!



@section Minor-mode : god-mode

god-mode is one possible modal editing. See below about evil-mode.
god-mode can be toggled using @kbd{Control+g}. Using vanilla god-mode, it is then possible to quit god-mode pressing @kbd{Control+g} again (the modifier is necessary).

I'm currently waiting for a patch to be integrated, in order to allow god-mode to allow configuring which modifier is added to keys. This patch will allow to use god-mode with alt automatically triggered. Forward / Backward char / line / word will be one key distant, while delete prompts becomes nicer. Commands relying on @kbd{Control} modifier will be triggered with @key{g} key. Using this, quitting god-mode is @kbd{gg}, since first g will toggle Control modifier.

@section Minor-mode : evil-mode

While nu-mode is not a modal editor, and aims at being the most efficient keymap, sometimes using lot of modifiers might still be harassing. Using vim keymap is feasible : you can activate evil-mode, then switch from evil-state to emacs-state as you want.

Even while in evil-state, you will enjoy a few nu-mode keys, like Alt+v, Alt+f, and probably many others. However vim paddle (hjkl for left down up right) and nu-mode paddle (ijkl for up left down right) disagree on three of these four keys! If you want to have evil with nu-mode paddle, I recommend you to make vim paddle similar to nu-mode. Since @key{i} will not be available anymore to insert, use @key{h} for this purpose. Simply put below lines on your .emacs:

@lisp
(define-key evil-normal-state-map (kbd "h") 'evil-insert)
(define-key evil-normal-state-map (kbd "j") 'evil-backward-char)
(define-key evil-normal-state-map (kbd "i") 'evil-previous-line)
(define-key evil-normal-state-map (kbd "k") 'evil-next-line)
@end lisp

Obviously this only fixes the basic paddle. Backward and Foward word are different, but fixing the paddle is fine.


@section Other : autojump

autojump is part of the keybinding (alt f prompt, or directly Control+Shift+f to autojump to a char).


@node Cheat Sheet
@chapter Cheat Sheet
@cartouche
@verbatim


| key | Alt              | Control             | S-Ctrl    | S-Alt  |
|-----+------------------+---------------------+-----------+--------|
| a   | *Mark* / toggle  | Mark block / toggle | rectangle |        |
| z   | *Undo tree*      | Undo                |           |        |
| e   | Copy Above       |                     |           |        |
| r   | *Replace*        | Replace regex       |           |        |
| t   | *Other tab*      | New tab             |           |        |
| y   | Copy Below       |                     |           |        |
| u   | word back        | ctrl+bkspc.         |           | select |
| i   | up               | X [tab]             |           | select |
| o   | forward word     | *Open*              |           | select |
| p   | *Print*          | Argument            |           |        |
|-----+------------------+---------------------+-----------+--------|
| q   | *Quit*           | Quit                |           |        |
| s   | *Save*           | Save                |           |        |
| d   | *Delete*         | kill-word           |           |        |
| f   | *Find*           | Find                |           |        |
| g   | *Goto*           | God                 |           |        |
| h   | orig.            | *Help*              |           |        |
| j   | left             | backsp              |           | select |
| k   | down             | kill line           |           | select |
| l   | right            | kill right          |           | select |
| m   | newline & indent | X [RET]             |           |        |
|-----+------------------+---------------------+-----------+--------|
| w   | *Window* Pr      | kill-buffer         |           |        |
| x   | helm Mx          | Cut                 | *ctl-x*   |        |
| c   | -                | Copy                |           |        |
| v   | *Insert*         | Paste               |           |        |
| B   | *Emphasis*       | "bold"              |           |        |
| n   | *New*            | split window        |           |        |
|-----+------------------+---------------------+-----------+--------|

@end verbatim
@end cartouche

@node Customization
@chapter Customization

As ususal with Emacs, customization comes down at the very first usage. So even before to describe edition, customization has to be mentioned. There is not a single defcustom inside nu-mode. All customization is to be done in other ways.

@section I don't like the Alt modifier for the paddle
Easy. Do bind Control+ [ijkluo] to the movement. Eventually bind Alt + the same to delete, or rely on alt+d. You loose some consistency, since alt key is suppose to offer @strong{any function}. (On the other hand, you could remap Alt+o to open prompt.)

@section Prompts
If you want prompts to automatically prompt a buffer rather than just a 'nu-light-prompt-for-keymap, which is the default, use :

  (defalias 'nu-prompt-for-keymap 'nu-buffer-prompt-for-keymap)

If you dislike both nu-buffer-prompt-for-keymap and default nu-light-prompt-for-keymap (why? please report a bug!!), you're free to develop your own function. The only requirement is this function to offer to call-interactively the functions being part of the prompt. Be warned, you'll have to handle a huge amounts of details however if you want your function to be pleasant =)

As of August, 2014, some prompts have a ``fixed'' map you can amend directly:
- nu-window-map (Alt+w)
- nu-new-map (Alt+n)
- nu-a-map (Control+a)

If you want to amend some ``dynamic prompt'', add a hook after its ``populating''
- nu-populate-print does populate print-map (Alt+p)
- nu-populate-delete (Alt+d, nu-delete-map)
- nu-populate-bold-map (Alt+b, nu-bold-map)
- nu-populate-insert-map (Alt+v, nu-insert-map)
- nu-populate-save-map (Alt+s, nu-save-map)
- nu-populate-open-map (Control+o, nu-open-map)
- nu-populate-goto-map (Alt+g), nu-goto-map)

You can also raise prompt for maps outide of nu-mode :
- ctl-x-map, using @kbd{Control+Shift+x}
- help-map

Finally, it is totaly feasible to use nu-prompts styles for your own keymap : just (nu-prompt-for-keymap some-keymap), and you're there : one nu-mode prompt will offer you to leverage some-keymap.


@section Main keymap
If you want to amend nu-mode keymap, amend nu-keymap. 

@section Side effects
nu-mode does trigger some settings which are not mandatory

cua-selection-mode is really logical given the nu-mode paddle. However, feel free to fix this call in nu-mode initialization.
@lisp
(cua-selection-mode 1)
@end lisp

Also, cursor-type is amended. You can set it back, but again, despite not mandatory for nu-mode to work this is really logical given the keybinding.
@lisp
   (set-default 'cursor-type 'bar)
@end lisp

@node Contributing
@chapter Contributing

As of today nu-mode only has one author, & contribution is more than welcomed. Please look at github.

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl-1.3.texi

@bye

@c Local Variables:
@c mode: texinfo
@c TeX-master: t
@c sentence-end-double-space: t
@c End:
